so I'm Stephen mostly known as de
billion I'll be talking about IPL d they
should hopefully be fairly short
I feel D is the interplanetary linked
data system that's sort of the
underlying system that we use for
storing data and referencing data in
ipfs why I build II basically gives us a
decentralized permanent memory for its
emphasize permit web
I confess again we need a permanent file
system but underneath every file system
there is some form of data structure
system in your computer it's i know'd in
ipfs we have viability so originally we
had something called the Merkel dag the
Merkel dag had basically data and links
every node looks kind of like this where
you could have one node that's protocol
labs it has a data section
it just has raw data here I form it in
Jason to be nice to you
in ipfs we use part of us so this will
just look at garbage and then said you
can have another node Steven that's me
with the data section and then a link
pointing back to the company I worked
for and showing the relationship between
me in the company this form it was a bit
annoying to work with so we made up UD I
feel D is structured so instead of just
having this arbitrary data section the
entire thing is structured and you can
just like even you don't know what
you're looking for you can
understand the structure its self
describing so you don't have external
schemas here like this disk image
actually built in in ipfs it's not it's
just binary but in IP LD it's actually
fully just uh like skin meds is what
ideally would look like go back to the
second
it's versioned so you know ideally we
have this thing called C IDs or content
ideas basically whenever you have a
pointer that points to you some piece of
IPL D data the pointer says what version
of IPL D it is and the type of data it's
pointing to or the calcul interpret the
data so I could say oh you're pointing
to a get object I'll get to that in a
second but like and then that's like
this is how you decode the object and
this is the version of IPL they were
using so it means like if we have to
change anything we can always just up
the version number and happy
oculi in the future this is hard to do
with to deal with this with our existing
merkel deck we actually had to make like
we call b c d b0 would you hope you
never have to you again
we're basically said like well if you
see something looks exactly like this
if the CA d b0 they're portrayed it this
way otherwise there has a version you
can treat it the normal way we don't
have to do that again because it's a lot
special casing next the pocket it's
inclusive so IPL de is really cool
because we can point to anything like
any merkel link data and basically say
look like this is now part of IPL d so I
think this is the Borg or basically say
well get like it's a Merkel linked data
structure yeah it's basically it's a
list of commits about the previous
commit and then each commit points to
tree objects yeah and yeah but like that
means like from IPL D itself you can
actually like explore a get commit tree
and like reference any object you get
tree and just treat it as if it's any
other ideally object we can do the same
thing with hiriam we also have our own
custom formats the uses C bore yeah
finally it has past reversal it's
actually go to 400 explain it first
basically allows you to name anything in
my building that's the main point in the
merkel dag you can kind of name things
but the real way you need things like
you said like like some node and then
link number 32 and then somewhat like
link number 41 or whatever you sort of
like walk through the link numbers and
that's not very friendly but I'll just
show you the example it's easy to
understand so this is again the this
example here but rewritten in I feel D
where it's just two objects the company
and then me and then my object is a
pointer of active company but the links
actually like I feel the resolve so I
should I feel de my Content ID / company
/ name which just walks through my
object to such company and then walks
through the company object through slots
name and it resolves to protocol labs it
just varies afore exploring data
for the team that's working on this the
working group is one myself
dummy Dodd who's not here currently and
Volker the midwives I call the midwives
this is because like the people who
helped her birth fu Lee again
daveed kwon nickel out myself
Jeremy and then we have a bunch of
contributors it's bit hard to list them
because I feel these very sort of spread
out and has been built over with many
discussions some of them status
currently we have I peeled the ffs runs
an ideally and we have C or D T's and I
feel D we are working on new improved
formats actually get is probably you
should go back up to deployment
now that the next release of ipfs well
once the next release 5f yes it comes
out yet we support it by default and go
FS and yeah we're still working on
making a little more user-friendly that
can actually also moved a bit more
towards deployment because Jas or
JavaScript has been working a lot this
quarter fix of Walker on making using a
building in JavaScript much more
friendly go it's still bit iffy and CEO
duties and I believe again there's still
work in progress research I don't have
to get into this too much but basically
we were working on introducing types to
you ipfs so currently we have like on
its structured data but it's not like
we're losing type information it's like
when you break your program you may have
type information you program and then
like when you when you
sorry data sources and IPL de we kind of
just sort of like we keep the structure
but we throw away the actual like extra
type information we're hoping to keep
that in the future we'd add like more
type classes and stuff like that and
then eventually be able to ship code
with ible but yeah status JavaScript
just would happen this quarter or the
past few quarters
interfaces and formats and documentation
is steadily improving thanks to Volker
go the next go up yes released look at
and include the get IV plugin improve
support decoding coding and a but others
mostly stagnant due to lack of time so
that's
[Applause]
this might be is to be a question or
idea but I just wanted to throw it out
if you consider using graph QL as a
query language to the EPL de sant
structure to the bathroom Rosso etc so
the question is have you considered
using graph QL for trying out BLD we
have we've looked at it we are still
considering it
one issue there is we would like to make
a query length with this person I would
like to make query language it has a
nice performance guarantees where I can
send a query to some arbitrary new that
doesn't trust me and it can execute the
query and know like you won't like take
exponential time like that and also know
a few other properties really ideally
you'd be able to partially execute the
query over some subset of data and then
return a certifiable results look query
we're like the the person that's getting
the data back and then verify that the
query succeed correctly I don't know if
graph to entre provides these kinds of
guarantees so we've been looking to
other selected languages that allow
things like that we could implement or
we say we could still use graph 2 on top
of some other system we're like whiskey
I give you a graphical query and you
give me back everything I need to
actually flick answer the query
early to determine if you did perform
the query correctly but that's sorry
it's not going question
it's very common question sorry any
other questions